So eventually, the idea with modules
is that we'll be able to ship this script tag
to the browser, meaning that we can just
upload our entire project and the idea is that
we have this thing called http-2 and http-3,
which, even though you're requesting, I don't know,
seven, eight, a hundred different JavaScript files,
they can all be delivered at once,
like your server will know exactly
what JavaScript files to deliver to you.
Now, that currently isn't really the situation,
and most developers will reach
for what is called a bundler.
So why might someone use a bundler
over top of a just regular module?
Well, first of all, you're able to compress
all of your code.
So, all of the code that we have in something like this,
they're able to minify it, so any time
I have a variable called options,
a minifier would take that and just replace it
with just like an "o".
And that is much smaller because it's what?
One, two, three, four, five, six, it's seven times smaller
to use "o" as a variable name than options.
And you shouldn't have to code that way,
but a minifier will do that for you.
It will also make all your code as small as possible,
it will do what's called dead-code elimination.
So if you have a function that's in here
and it's never used, it will detect that
and remove all of that, which is pretty cool.
Other things that bundlers do is,
we talked about what babble is,
babble will transpile your code from all this new stuff
like classes and fact ticks and all of this kind of
neat, new stuff and it will transpile it
if you need to support older browsers.
And then furthermore, it will also handle things
like JavaScript, like SASS or LESS
or if you're using some of the new CSS auto-prefixer stuff,
there's all kinds of like really neat stuff
that sorta does for you.
Now, there's a bunch of different bundlers out there,
and generally, the bundlers will include a bundler [Laughs]
and it will include what's called a Dev server
and that's the, whenever we've been running Parcel start,
that's being the Dev server that we're using.
So Parcel is a good one.
There's a new one called Pika that has been around
for a couple of months yet,
not totally sure what the future of that looks like.
It looks pretty promising, so keep an eye on that.
Webpack is probably the biggest one that's used right now,
very complicated to get up and running,
like it'll, both of these, Parcel and Webpack,
will also do image compression,
by the way, which is pretty cool.
So Webpack is a pretty popular one,
very hard to get up and running, in my opinion,
Rollup is another popular one.
So, essentially, if you want to ship your code
to a browser and have it be as small
and as performant as possible,
right now we're using bundlers to do that.
And I'm going to show you how to use my favorite,
which is called Parcel.
Now, I'm going to be using Parcel One in here,
but Parcel Two will work exactly the same way.
I've talked to the developers behind it,
so nothing will have changed.
If it is, I will cut into this video right now
and show you how to do it.
So let's go and convert both the modules for dad jokes
and the currency converter for modules.
Now I'll show you what the process is for that.
So we'll go into our terminal, and we want to go,
let's do the dad jokes modules first, so into 77.
And the first that you need is a package.json
A package.json is a file that contains
information about your dependencies
and about what scripts you have,
and basically just a bunch
of information about your project.
And if you don't have a package.json,
you can simply get one by typing "npm init"
and we've done this a couple of times,
and it's going to ask you what's the name of your package,
maybe for you, that should say "project name",
but we can type in here, dad jokes.
And then it asks you what version it is,
what description, entry point, test command, git repo,
you just keep hitting enter for all of these.
There's also a little command that will
skip them for you, if you type "npm - - help",
it will give you a list of all the different commands.
Not gonna get into that right now.
Now, if we go to our package.json,
you'll see in here is all the information about our project.
And the we can go ahead and install our Parcel bundler.
Now we want to go ahead and install Parcel,
so I've told you you can globally install it,
which is great for when you need just a quick
server up and running, but any project
that's gonna go on for more than a couple days,
I recommend that you install it to that project as well.
That way, anyone who downloads this thing off of GitHub,
or you send it to a coworker,
they all use the same version of Parcel,
and it's easy for them to get up and running
just by typing in "npm start".
So we want to npm install Parcel-bundler.
And we want to save it as a Dev-dependency,
so you pass the "dash dash" save-dev,
or just dash capital "D" as a short form of that.
And what that will do is it's going to put it
as a dependency in our package.json,
and it will put it under what's called "dev dependencies".
And these are things that are not needed
for the application to run, but they are needed
in order for someone to work on the application.
That's the difference between a dependency,
something like "react" or "view" might be a dependency,
and then a dev dependency might be just the tooling
that is needed in order to work on it.
There we go, after a couple of minutes, it installed.
You'll see that it's listed under dev dependencies
and the version of Parcel, if you see 2.0,
don't freak out, it is totally fine.
I expect that to be the case
pretty soon after recording this.
They've been working on Parcel Two for well over a year
and it should be out sometime soon.
Now, in order to run Parcel, we've done this as well,
is you add a script that will use it.
So we can't just run, well we can run Parcel
right from here, like I could say Parcel index.html
and it goes ahead and runs,
but when you type it into the command line like this,
it uses your global install of Parcel
that's on your computer.
If you want to use the npm-installed version
of Parcel that we just did,
it's better to run it as an npm script instead.
So what we'll do is we'll give it a start
and we'll replace that script with parcel
and then we just give it our entry point,
which is index.html.
Give it a save, and now I just need to type npm start
and that will, in turn, run Parcel index for us.
So that's just a npm whatever the name of the script here,
will in turn run this for us.
And then you see it's running on local host 1234.
Open it up here and check in my dev tools.
Now we get the same issue we had before:
regenerator run time is not defined at handle click.
And that's because we're using async await here.
So the way that we got around that before,
and you're probably gonna have to do this
in every one of your projects,
is you type browserslist, which is an array.
Notice how I put a comma after that one there.
And we just say, in double quotes, not single,
last 1 chrome versions.
And there we go, that gets rid of it.
If you ever have problems with Parcel being weird
or you're like, "I fixed it but it's not actually fixed"
go into your, find your cache, and your dist folders.
Those are two folders that are generated by Parcel,
nothing wrong with ever just deleting them,
and then re-running npm start.
And watch, they'll regenerate
those folders for you, which is great.
So that allows you to just go ahead and work on it,
and it's great because you can work
on all of your JavaScript and it will
automatically reload those for you,
or in most cases, it will try to reload it.
It's not perfect with vanilla JavaScript
but with things like view and react it works really well.
And then the other part of Parcel
is once you're done developing,
it's time to go ahead and build it,
build a compiled version of your JavaScript file.
So when you wanna put this thing online,
what you do is you write
another script in your package.json.
So you put a comma there,
and you make a new one called build.
And that will just run Parcel build.
And I believe that's all we need to do.
Maybe we need to pass index.html, let's see.
Npm run build.
So npm start will always look for a script
called start, but that's it.
The other script names you have to type in "run".
And I just made that up, called build.
That's not a special one.
No entries found.
So I do need to pass index.html to that.
Now let's try it.
Building index.html.
See look, it's building all of our JavaScript files for us.
Boom!
You see what it did here?
Is it created a dist folder for us
and let's go an take a look at what's in there.
Dist folder--woo!
Look at all these!
So we obviously have our index.html if we open that up.
Look, it's taken all of our html
and compressed it as much as it possibly can.
It also has swapped out the jokes.js file for us.
And then each of the different files that we have,
you can see that there's a .js in here.
You see, look at this, this is our code.
You can kind of see, like look at this.
Fetch icanhazdadjoke headers:Accept:json.
But things like s=await t.json, what was that?
Well if we go back to our jokes.js, where was it?
It was in our lib, index, see?
It was const data= await response.json.
In the new, finished version,
it's simply just s=await t.json.
So there's a robot that knows really well
how to make small variables
and rename things, which is pretty cool.
And then you'll also see these .map files.
And what those are, is if I were to open this index.html
in my browser here, oh, it doesn't work
because I'm not on a server.
But what happens is that, if there is an error
somewhere in here, like the await, here were go,
const t=await fetch, it's not going to tell you
that the error is in the jokes.e24dcae1.js
because you could not decipher where that error would be
because this looks nothing like the JavaScript
that you have written yourself.
And it will also tell you that the error's
either on line one, two, three, four, or up to 14.
And that's not great, either.
So what these map files will do
is they map back the compiled, mangled version
back to the lines in your beautifully written one.
And they point to which module they're in,
they point to the original, and your browser
is able to decipher those map files,
and give you good errors, telling you
exactly where those errors has happened.
It will also compile all of your CSS for you,
look at this, and ship it for you.
It doesn't look like it compresses the CSS as well.
One other thing is, I have had issues with Parcel
in the past, I'm not sure if this fixed or not,
but the type of module, because you're using Parcel
instead of just regular modules in the browser,
even though they're the same thing,
I've had to delete this in the past.
So if you run into those problems,
just go ahead and delete that type of module
and then rerun your build command.
So the Parcel build is something that you're going to be
rerunning every single time
that you've changed your application.
The other thing about this is if I rerun this npm run build,
you'll notice that these numbers stay the same:
543 543 543 right there, .css,
but if I were to change some of these,
like if I go into my jokes.js and I add a new line,
and rerun the build, you'll see
jokes used to end in ae1, and now jokes ends in 5ba,
and these ones are still the same.
So it can detect when your files have changed
and it will only rerun the build on those files.
And then, what's cool about that is
it puts this random key into the name of the file
and then that will bust any caches
that your users might have.
Certainly, I've run into situations before
where the client picks up the phone like,
"I don't, did you do any work?"
You're like, "yeah I pushed it, did you refresh?"
They're like, "yeah I refreshed."
And you have to say, "Okay, do a hard refresh.
Right click and click on hard reload."
Those issues are gone when you use
just random identifiers in the name
of your CSS and JavaScript files.
And that's great because then they will just say,
"oh, this is totally different JavaScript file,
I will redownload it and not just
serve it up from the cache."
So that is Parcel, very, very simple to use, very good.
It's quite honestly the only one that I reach for now.
I do use some other stuff like create-react-app
or nextjs or Gatsby.
And all of those do use webpack under the hood,
but I never have to use webpack directly.
And this is not to throw any shade at webpack's direction,
I just think that Parcel,
especially for a beginner, just learning,
and up to someone like me, I'm a professional,
I think it is, by far, the easiest one.
It's got the best defaults on it,
and you very rarely have to fuss with it
past working with that package json file.
Let's get into learning about some npm modules now.